[MUSIC]
Now our main protagonist for this and
a couple of next sections will be the so
called policy gradient.
The idea behind this is that instead of
trying to do some cunning heavy wizardry
methods, like picking top sessions,
calling them elites for
some reason and
just trying to with those sessions.
Maybe you'd be better of if you just tried
to write down what you want to optimize,
complete the of this thing,
and then follow through
with via gradient dissent or
back propagation neural networks.
Let's try to see how it
works one step at a time.
Let's begin by introducing the notion
of so called expected reward.
You'd probably used this thing on
more than one occasion actually.
But this time we're going to have
to explicitly write it down and
make some mathematical
derivations with it.
So they yield of expected reward is
that it is, well, what it seems to be.
It is an expectation over the rewards that
you're going to get if you play a lot of
sessions with your agent.
Now, during our first week,
we had an expected reward without gammas,
without discounts.
And this was just an expected
sum of rewards of our session.
Now, there's also the expected
discounted reward.
Follows the notion of discounted reward
from weeks two and three, and Q-learning,
value iteration and so on.
And simply a sum of your rewards
multiplied by gamma to the power of
how much time has passed
since this moment of time.
The idea here is that you can
try to maximize the average
discounted reward over states.
Or you can try to maximize the discounted
reward you get from the first state on.
So let's start with the undiscounted
version of our rewards because it produces
simpler math.
Even further,
let's simplify our problem by planning
that there is only one step per session.
So your agent gets born
in some random state.
It takes one action.
It observes the reward,
it may trade on this reward.
And then a new session begins.
So there is no continuation
in one session.
So if we write down what's actually
hiding behind this need expectation,
you'll see the nasty double integral here.
So there is an integral
over all possible states.
They are permissible for
visiting the state.
Then integral over actions and
probabilities of taking this action, and
then you will multiply
the state by the reward.
This is how a mathematical
expectation works for
the general case where you have
infinite continuous amount of options.
Now, of course, if you have,
say, five or six actions,
then it's okay to replace
the integral with a sum.
If you're still feeling lost, let's
walk through this formula step by step.
The first thing here is
the state visitation frequency.
We have a provision of visiting state s.
And in this case, so
far it's not dependent on an agent.
However, if you use a more complicated
notion of multiple step process,
then visiting state is something
that agent can influence.
So this would be also
dependent on agent's policy.
The second thing is that the pi factor is
the probability of agent taking the action
E in the state.
And this is what your agent
actually influences here.
This is the unilateral prediction or
maybe they're of the table of all possible
probabilities of all action probabilities.
Now the final term is the reward.
In this case you can use any notion,
it's still just one time step.
Now remember this is the thing
we're trying to maximize.
But so far, it's hard to even compute,
not talking about any optimization at all.
So if you try to explicitly estimate the
value of this J, you'll have to sum over
all possible breakout frames,
sum over all possible actions.
If there's continuous amount of actions,
you're screwed.
And then compute the rewards for the whole
session if you're starting from there.
So surely there is a simple way
you can estimate this thing,
although approximately.
How would you do that?
To even compute this, if you remember,
this is still a mathematical expectation.
And instead of trying to
compute expectation exactly,
you can simply approximate
it with sampling.
So you play, let's say, 1,000 games, and
your average over all the states and
actions you have met in those games.
So finally some good news have arrived.
You can at least approximately
estimate the value of this J by
using the Monte Carlo sampling like this.
Now let's go to the second stage.
We want to optimize the J,
we want to compute the gradient of J with
respect to the branches of your policy.
And to do so we need to compute
the gradient of the sample's approximate
version because we can't
deduce the regional version,
it's too hard to compute.
The question is, remember we had
all the those cool frameworks for
neural networks, like TensorFlow.
Can we use them now?
Can we maybe use TensorFlow to explicitly
compute the gradients of this formulation
of J respect to the theta,
the value of the policy.
Or maybe there's something that
prevents us from doing so.
Well right, so the problem with TensorFlow
here is that it can only compute
the derivatives with respect to
something that is in the formula.
And if you take a closer look at this
particular version of Monte Carlo sample
J, you'll notice that it has no place for
parameters, for thetas, here.
The problem is that this sample
definition, it does depend on parameters,
on policy, but
it depends on them in the summation.
So you have sampled
the sessions from your policy.
But you don't remember the values,
you don't remember
the probabilities any longer.
So no, TensorFlow won't be able
to compute this thing for us.
And in fact, not only TensorFlow, but any
mathematician, if you give him the second
formula only, will probably call you
a jerk if you ask him to differentiate.
Okay, so we have to do something else.
The answer will go here,
we have to estimate the gradient of J.
Now some simple, so-called duct tape
approaches you could try to employ are,
for example,
the so-called finite differences.
So instead of trying to compute
the derivative, you can just pretend that
the infinitely small value in the
deficient of the derivative is equal to,
say, 10 to the power of minus five,
this epsilon here.
You can compute something that
looks like a derivative, but
it's not derivative because
the value is not infinitely small.
This will technically work.
It will require you to,
well get the J on the compost by sampling.
And then change this policy ever so
slightly by this small value of epsilon.
And then find the new value of
the policy by sampling more sessions.
Now another way that you are probably
more familiar with by now,
is use cross-entropy method.
What it does is it tries to somewhat
maximize something that looks
like J by sampling a lot of sessions.
And then taking those in which
the J from a particular session was
higher than that of other sessions.
So the expected reward was larger.
And both of those methods will technically
work, although they have some problems.
Now this time I would ask you
to criticize those methods.
So while those two methods do work in
theory, in practice they have an issue
of being very hard to efficiently
estimate in any practical situation.
For example,
if you are trying to solve breakout via
these finite differences method, it would
actually take you to play say 100 games
to estimate this first J plus epsilon.
And then it'll take you another 100
games to estimate the second J.
And even then the amount of noise you
introduce by sampling would be still much
larger than the difference
between the two policies,
especially if J is sufficiently small.
And if you use large values of J
your gradient would be useless for
anything more complicated than a linear
model, or maybe a table in this case.
Stochastic optimization, like the
crossentropy method is in this case much
more practical in terms
of how to use samples.
But it still has some problems.
For example, remember,
if you have some innate randomness.
For example, you have a slot
machine in your environment or
there are some physically random process.
In this case you'll have to use your
crossentropy method with some tweaks to
prevent it from favoring the lucky
outcomes, from believing that the elite
sessions are elite because they have
some way of tricking the slot machine.
The method we are going to study next will
mitigate both these problems by the way it
computes the derivative of J.
It won't use any high wizardry.
Instead it will try to find
an analytical derivative
of J which is easily
approximated with sampling.
[SOUND]